I'm sharing five super simple but
powerful ways your B2B Tech or Service
Company can rank top of Google with
[Music]
SEO hey I'm Sam Dunning host of the top
10 btb marketing podcast business growth
show and to check out my free playbooks
podcast resources or whenever you're
ready to apply to work with me head over
to samd dunn. org in this episode I'm
going to share five battle tested
strategies I use myself and for clients
to help their B2B sites rank top of
Google let's dive
in so tip one is making sure you match
user intent with the focus keywords you
want to get found for you want to drive
traffic to your website for so there's
various levels of search intent and what
I mean by search intent is what are the
actual intentions of this Prospect when
they're looking for this keyword or this
search term on Google are I are they
researching or trying to educate themsel
are they maybe comparing options like in
the SAS space looking at a couple
different vendors to see what's best for
them or they may be ready to have a
sales conversation and speak to sales
about your service or your solution
today so one nice way of doing that is
to literally type in your target keyword
into Google and see what the top organic
non-sponsored ads are about how they
pages are formed and how they're built
so for example in the sales proposal
space a top of funnel keyword in
research mode might be how to build a
sales proposal when I scroll past the
paid the sponsor listings the top
organic spot is Panda how to write a
sales proposal win clients it's actually
got a featured snippet as well but if we
look at the article it's super super
long form thousands of thousands of
words literally nailing down every part
of writing an outline defining prospects
problem writing a summary market
research offer solution identify
deliverables knowing the audience be
detailed don't forget call to action
providing social proof Ed templates
followup it's got a detailed super long
form 12 step article so you know if you
want any chance of being the article
it's going to have to go above and
beyond what pandadoc have put together
and in between their article they've got
kind of some social proof some client
testimonials they've got some cool to
actions on that article ler on so you
can book a demo with panda do and a few
other bits and pieces so that gives you
an idea early stage what we call
research
mode middle funnel or slightly later
funnel for example in the calendar tool
booking space so if you want to have a
calendar on your website where people
can book a time of sales you might
search for calendly Alternatives and if
we look at one of the top ranking Pages
there to understand search intent we can
see if we want a chance of ranking we're
going to have to list do a listicle type
article so job.com at top and they've
got 12 best candly Alternatives so they
naturally positions themselves as number
one and then they've got 11 different
options so again if you want to outrank
them you're going to have to go for a
listicle type format where you do an
unbiased review of the relevant options
and you have to do more than 12 and then
if we go real bottom of the funnel where
someone searching for top proposal
software back to the proposal sales
proposal software space the top organic
listing here is actually HubSpot and
there again this is lisal format so
they've got 15 proposal software tools
for proposal creation and man management
so you know you're going to have to
probably do a very detailed listal that
goes above and beyond what hubs I've got
in that space so understanding search
intent quite literally looking up the
target keyword understanding what the
top organic ranking pages are doing the
format and getting tips for how you can
go above and beyond is a great place to
start for understanding the search
intent so tips two and tip three are
quite closely linked at tip two we've
got the skyscraper technique and then at
tip three we've got using
eat experience expertise Authority and
Trust which was released a while back as
one of the Google's updates as part as
one of the helpful content updates that
was fairly recent at the time recording
as well anyway the skyscraper technique
at number two is something that some
seos say no longer works I know it works
so if I could tell you a quick story a
few months back for one of our Target
keyword for web Choice B2B SEO company
we are hard stuck on page two super
frustrating it's B2B SEO natural is one
of our top services so what I did was
the skyscraper technique first and
foremost reviewed the top three organic
non-paid results I looked at their pages
and I essentially assess their content
so what's it talking about what's it
saying in terms of benefits what social
proof are they using what examples are
they using what main features elements
benefits are they talking about how are
they sharing their process are they
doing any feq at the bottom what are all
the angles the skyscraper technique is
all about using all the angles that you
can one up your competitors that are
ranking above you at every Point
possible so on our B2B SEO company page
I did a bunch of things and some of this
is going to weave into tip three which
is you using eat experience expertise
Authority and Trust um combination with
a skyscraper technique to W up your
competitors every chance possible with
content unique stats ideas FAQs and more
and basically the the thing here is to
think about what does the prospect what
does your ideal buyer your dream buyer
want to see on this page that's going to
position you as a trusted Authority
address their concerns their questions
show them the benefits that you bring to
the table share exactly how you're going
to fix the problem build some trust with
social proof testimonials examples and
then make it easy for them to get their
questions answered and then book a time
to speak with sales that's exactly what
I did on this page because
before before this page that I'm going
to show you is fairly short form wasn't
too detailed um didn't have a bunch of
FAQs so what we did was we added detail
so we show that this is how we're going
to fix your problem this is some social
proof some testimonial sliders this is
our exact Pro of keyword research SEO
audit link building analyzing
competitors on page SEO this is what you
can expect from our company and this was
the the juicy point that actually helped
us get the rankings kind of three weeks
from making these changes from being
page two to top spot page one is I
actually made a list of every key
question and objection I'd get on sales
calls and then hit those directly in the
FAQ so a lot of competitors will be
scared to address some of these
questions but this is where you can
really one up them so things like how
much does SEO cost so I quite literally
save from 4K a month and break that down
why should you invest is SEO going to be
a good fit I share when it is and when
it isn't what do you need before
investing SEO how does it work what's an
SEO consultant can I do it myself and
quite literally share you could but you
might not get the results you're hoping
for as you might not be a Content
specialist web dev off page SEO link
building so still these ideas for your
site especially the FAQ part in terms of
what you get asked on sales cools what
the common objections questions and more
that really lays into eat for Google in
terms of helpful content because you're
directly fixing on the pain points
problems questions examples and more so
yeah think about the skyp scraper
technique think about looking at the top
three organic pages that your
competitors are ranking well for on your
target keywords look at them assess them
think of ways that you can one up them
at every angle and then when you're
building your long form page make sure
you're talking about PR you fix how your
solution is positioned to fix them give
them examples give them nice lots of
social proof testimonial sliders maybe
client review videos address their
questions their pain points position
yourself as the authority by going one
up at every point and of course have
clear call to actions to book that demo
book that sales call whatever is
relevant for that
page video kill the Radio Star tip four
I've got a spicy tip to actually nail
two rankings in Google's organic search
result and also rank super well in
YouTube and even improve your existing
Pages whether they're product pages
service Pages or article Pages or more
let's jump into it so here's an example
so for B2B SAS SEO guide we've got the
featured snippet so straightway organic
result with some copy before you even
click into the result and then we've
also got a ranking in the video section
looking at the mobile view for the My
ultimate B2B SAS SEO guide so the beauty
of this is if you create a video on
YouTube that's super focused on the
target keyword and gives an in-depth
guide walk through and breakdown of that
topic try to make it best in class again
review what videos are ranking well on
YouTube and look for ways that you can
surpass them with your content on that
dedicated topic and make sure the
relevant keyword is in the title and the
description of the YouTube video you can
not only get your article page ranking
and embed the video on there as well you
can get ranked in the video section
which works super well on mobile is you
can quite literally steal the majority
share of those top above the fold
results super powerful not only that but
it can rank well on YouTube as mentioned
now so for example if you search B2B SEO
I've got a ultimate B2B SEO guide
ranking second at the moment it looks
like and then B2B SAS SEO I've got the
ultimate B2B SAS SEO guide ranking top
at the moment and the other thing I did
was embed that B2B SEO guide I made for
our B2B SEO company page and again that
was one of those things I recommend if
you're building long for pages that you
want to rank well if you can get a video
guide and embed that not only can that
help your offer page or service page
whatever page is rank a bit better but
can also help you stand out in the
search results you can get a little
featured image next to your organic
search on Google so it can actually help
improve your clickthrough rate as well
as all those other envirment is so video
is something a lot of B2B companies are
sleeping on huge for helping your pages
rank better building trust ranking well
on YouTube which a lot of prospects go
to educate themselves and get
information and it can give you those
two results in Google so well worth
investing your time in not only to
mention from the video just like we do
on business growth show you can then
repurpose those videos into long form
articles into podcasts into video SN
Snippets to go on social on LinkedIn
YouTube shorts and more so well worth
your time in getting stuck
into and the fifth and final point is to
know and B2B your website should be your
very best salesperson un like any sales
rep it's working around the clock 247
365 days a year and the best B2B
websites should clearly share exactly
what you do how you help problems you
fix they should share examples of your
offer product in action they should
share Clear Proof of results whether
that's testimonials video reviews case
studies or more they should give
prospects a clear idea of your pricing
so you can qualify people in and make
sure the inquiries you do get are a good
bit to do business with you they should
share answers to common questions FAQs
perhaps in relevant Pages service Pages
integration Pages whatever may be
relevant and on the basis your website
checks all of those boxes it should be
super easy to book that demo or request
to speak to sales whether that's a quick
form booking time on a sales rep
calendar or otherwise and of course your
website needs to load fast needs to work
great on mobile tablet and PC and it
needs to have a great design design
engages your target audience looks good
builds trust with them that makes it
easy to do all of the above not only is
that going to help from SEO from a user
experience standpoint from the content
standpoint and more but it's going to
help you drive quality conversions with
your ideal clients and AKA get more
inbound leads for your sales team and to
finalize your content your messaging
your copy your website should all be
with your focus buyer your dream ideal
clients in mind after all they're the
ones that are going to be buying your
stuff not yourself so make sure you
focus on the problems they want to fix
the jobs they want to get done their
goals their motivations so you can
attack that directly you can rank better
on Google you can actually resonate with
those prospects and you can start
converting them into qualified
opportunities as always if you enjoyed
today's episode or rating or review on
your podcast channel on Apple goes a
really long way or subscribe if you're
watching on YouTube as much as
appreciated for more free resources
playbooks and podcasts or to apply to
work with me head over to samd dunn. org
and with that I'll catch you on the next
one cheers